Deprecate publishing maven dependency with differing artifact name (#27370)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/releases/upgrading/upgrading_version_8.adoc

======
=====

[[publishing_artifact_name_different_from_artifact_id_maven]]
==== Deprecated publishing artifact dependencies with explicit name to Maven repositories

> Publishing dependencies with an explicit artifact with name different from the dependency's artifactId to Maven repositories has been deprecated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publishing dependencies with an explicit artifact with a name different from the dependency's `artifactId` to Maven repositories has been deprecated.
```

> This behavior will still be permitted when publishing to Ivy repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behavior is still be permitted when publishing to Ivy repositories.
```

> This behavior will still be permitted when publishing to Ivy repositories.

Author: ```suggestion
This behavior is still permitted when publishing to Ivy repositories.
```

> This will become an error in Gradle 9.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will result in an error in Gradle 9.0.
```

> It will result in an error in Gradle 9.0.

Reviewer 2: In the future, will this become an error or will we produce a POM that depends on `org:foo:1.0`?

Author: This will become an error. An artifact with name != artifactId is different than a dependency on just the artifactId. We should not ignore the declared name during publishing and therefore should throw an error

> Currently, when publishing to Maven repositories, Gradle will interpret the below dependency as if it were declared with coordinates `org:notfoo:1.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, when publishing to Maven repositories, Gradle will interpret the dependency below as if it were declared with coordinates `org:notfoo:1.0`.
```
